#summary The alpine-backup tutorial
#labels Featured
== Contents ==

1. Setup
2. Configuration File Format
3. Mounting Setup
4. (in) Frequently Asked Questions
5. Features to implement

== 1. Setup ==

Once you have installed, you should take a look at the example configuration file.
Each file describes one server. To add volumes simply create a new section.
The format is that of a standard ini file. In order to be useful, each section
must have at least source and dest sections. Most options are configurable in
these files.

There are also some global options at the top of the alpine-backup file.
These are: date format, default options, include path and the path to the
configuration file. Rsync is assumed to be in your path. You may need to
change the shebang line at the top to the right path for php5.

After configuring, try the backup manually before adding it to your crontab.
You will have to create the directories for the backups and setup mountpoints
first. You may see errors about 'current' or 'deleting old backups'; these
are normal and will probably only occur the first time. When you are using cron,
you can view the logs by running mail on your system.

The syntax: alpine-backup <server> <item>

== 2. Configuration File Format ==

||Name ||Description ||
||source ||specifes the source of the backup. This may be local or remote.||
||dest|| specifies the destination of the backup. This may be local or remote.||
||opt|| specifies custom options specific to this backup.||
||mount|| causes mounting of specified volumes. More on this later.||
||delete_after: causes old backups to be deleted after the specified time. (eg. '30 days ago')||

== 3. Mounting Setup ==

mount = "nwfs","joe@foobar:MAIN","/mnt/mymountpoint"
A mount option is composed of three parts separated by commas.
The first part is the file system type. The second is the source
in 'user@server:VOLUME' format. The third is the local mount point.
Your mount point must also be set as the source.

NOTE: You should modify your mount driver (usually located in /usr/bin/alpine-backup)
to ensure correct settings (trees, contexts, passwords, etc.) are correctly set.

== 4. (in) Frequently Asked Questions ==

== 5. Features to implement ==

  * support for other file system mounting
  * support for backup of more than one item at a time